#summary cocos 2010 release status update

= Info blurbs =

== pre pycamp (r881..r904) ==

 * Issue tracker partially updated.
 * Bug fixing.
 * tiles subsystem updates both in code and docs, also unit tests added
 * trunk\utest directory created to hold unit tests
 * minimal pyglet mockup checked-in
Pressure to release before pyweek grows.

== cocos 3.1beta and pycamp (r905..r929) ==

Between 5 to 8th March 2010 the PyCamp 2010 Veronica event took part, at Veronica, Argentina.
PyCamp is a python developers event, and there were present a number of cocos's developers.
Talks, discussions coding and commits ensued.
Most people there wanted to release before pyweek.
Changes that made to trunk, and then to the 3.1beta release (for details, look under the Working Areas section)

 * *audio:* SDL support added (r907, r908, r912, r913, r923..r928) 
 * *placement:* the interaction between anchors, cocosnode.transform, cocosnode.draw, cocosnode.visit changed (r905, r917,more?)
 * *coordinates:* world coordinates added, world-to-local added (r914, r915, more?) 
 * *sprites_:* changes in sprite anchors and related code (r917, more?)
 * *recorder_:* video record your app as a series of .png files, at a desired framerate (r917 director.py, more?) 
 * *axis aligned bounding box (AABB) for sprites:* (r909, r910)
Also, more bug fixing.

== pyweek 10 (r930..r934) ==

The great pyweek 'make a game in a week' compo ran between March 28 and April 4 2010
Slowdown in the commits is common around pyweek dates, they usually reduce to emergency bugfixig issues showing at pyweek.
So, only fast and dirty bugfixes for some time.
 
== post pyweek 10 (r935..r972) ==

 * *actions upgraded:* now Action with undefined duration are useful. Operators now accepts Action s instances. Lot of unit test for actions. Better docs, but need more.
 * *pyglet_mockup:* upgraded a little.
 * *SDL audio:* works in windows if pygame installed
 * *Scrolling:* upgraded
More bugfixing

== pyweek 11 announced (r973...) cocos 0.4rc0 released (...r1036) ==

Starts 2010/08/22 , 22 August 2010
We should release before 22 July 2010

 * *Scrolling:* upgraded
 * *docs:* doc builder toolchain patched and upgraded
 * *docs:* fix reST - epydoc format in docstrings and docs\*\*.txt
 * *packaging:* setup.py and related text files updated
 * More issue closing
 * *rc0 released 2010 07 07*

== final 0.4.0 release (r1037..r1052) ==

After two months and around 1700 downloads for RC0, with only one issue about compatibility with python 2.4 (fixed), it was time to do the final release.
 * cocos2d-0.4.0 released at googlecode
 * cocos2d.org updated
 * PyPI page updated 

 

 